---
layout: post
tags: mba career
title: "point of view"
date: 2018-05-20
---

This is an exercise in how to answer the typical interview question: tell me about yourself.

* _I have been a data scientist at LinkedIn for three years._

Instead of focusing on just the timeline, provide the **where** and **when**. What are the unique opportunities and constraints during those three years at LinkedIn?

* _I was a data scientist at LikededIn as we made a major mobile app re-vamp. A successful release was critical given x% of our company revenue was dependent on this app._

* _I was a data scientist at LikededIn as our business unit moved from focusing on revenue to focusing on creating shared value with our advertisers._

* _I was a data scientist at LinkedIn as our advertising business moved towards an online-buying first world._

Now instead of stating the role, describe the **what**. What were your behaviors, actions, and reactions in this role?

* _My work to define advertiser ROI via our conversion tracking product helped enable us to align towards this truth north metric. Furthermore, I evaluated whether our various sales strategies were aligned to advertiser objective._

* _In an online first world, there was focus on growing the SMB segment through various channels: marketing, sales, customer support, freemium products. I provided alignment bewteen marketing and sales by identifying our core customers._

What was the driving approach and strategy behind your actions, i.e. the **how**?

* _My analytical thinking was my edge. Within the sales and marketing leaders, I could make arguments backed by data. I was able to bring a/b testing framework to new sales programs, which helped provide clear guidance to our work._

